Bitcoin (BTC) was the first cryptocurrency ever created back in 2009, and it remains the most popular and valuable digital currency in the world today. Bitcoin is a blockchain-based decentralized digital currency powered by a network of users who verify and record transactions without relying on a central authority or intermediary.

Bitcoin is an alternative to fiat currencies, such as the U.S. dollar, that are controlled by governments and central banks. Transactions are verified via a process known as a proof-of-work consensus mechanism. Bitcoin miners compete to verify transactions by solving complex mathematical functions using powerful computers.

Some Bitcoin enthusiasts simply see the crypto as a fun asset for trading and speculation, while others believe it could ultimately become the universal currency of the digital world. There's no question Bitcoin has had a meteoric rise in popularity since its inception, but the first 13 years have also exposed several key flaws and shortcomings of the world's most popular digital asset.

Here's an overview of several of the key eras in Bitcoin's brief history and how they may affect its future:

When did Bitcoin start?
Bitcoin price history.
2022 Bitcoin crypto winter.
Bitcoin price predictions.
[ READ: Sign up for stock news with our Invested newsletter. ]
When Did Bitcoin Start?
It's no coincidence that Bitcoin was born during one of the most chaotic financial environments in U.S. history. During the global financial crisis of 2007 to 2009, distrust of banks and central governments was at a peak.

Bitcoin was created in 2009 by a person or group of people using the pseudonym Satoshi Nakamoto, the name which appeared on the original 2008 Bitcoin white paper that first described the blockchain system that would serve as the backbone of the entire cryptocurrency market.

SPONSORED

Speak with the Right Financial Advisor For You

Finding the right financial advisor that fits your needs doesn’t have to be hard. SmartAsset’s free tool matches you with top fiduciary financial advisors in your area in 5 minutes. Each advisor has been vetted by SmartAsset and is legally bound to act in your best interests. If you’re ready to be matched with local advisors that will help you achieve your financial goals, get started now.


Over the years, several people have stepped forward claiming to be the real Satoshi Nakamoto, but none could provide sufficient evidence to support their claims.